>> Steve Kinney: Turns out front end
engineers tend to do stuff in the web
browser, I've heard it happens.
There are some things about testing the
DOM that we have to think about in terms
of everything we've talked about so far.
One, your tests don't run in the browser,
yet,
they we'll deal with that,
this moment, they don't.
Your tests run in Node.
Node runs JavaScript that is true, but
it doesn't have any of the browser APIs,
right.
Has some of them, I'm not gonna get into
the difference between the behavior object
model and the document object model and
where actually console log and
settimeout live in the JavaScript spec,
nobody cares.
Important part is you don't have access,
there is no DOM in node.
Right, it's not a browser,
there's no browser APIs, ish.
Turns out the DOM is one of those APIs,
this means the node doesn't have the DOM,
which means you can't
test the DOM from node.
>> Steve Kinney: Do it anyway, by lying.
>> Steve Kinney: So
there are a few different libraries.
If you use Jest, JSDOM is built in.
If you use Vitest, you have the choice
between two, because why not?
JSDOM and HappyDOM.
JSDOM, in the earlier days,
a fellow named Dominic DiCola
re-implemented the DOM in JavaScript,
right?
The entire DOM spec in JavaScript,
I think it's a larger
community thing at this point.
But it's basically adds back
in all of those browser
APIs into the node environment.
So you have stuff like
document.queryselector, document, window,
all of those fun things that are not node.
It puts in spec compliant replacements for
those.
You have a choice between two of them,
I don't really care which
one you pick honestly.
I'm gonna be honest with you,
I pick HappyDOM cuz of the name.
It is the smaller, lightweight one but
what makes JSDOM, the bigger,
heavier one is that it's
probably more accurate, right?
So for most things, if you're just
putting some DOM nodes on a document and
seeing if they're there,
HappyDOM will do the trick.
If you run into weird edge cases,
the bigger heavier JSDOM works.
Honestly, I don't care which one you use.
I pick HappyDOM cuz I like the name,
right?
Things to keep in mind is that
it's not a real browser, so
you're not gonna catch stuff like
the nuances of, let's be honest,
Safari, or Firefox or whatever,
is simply a compliant version of that.
And also, I have a few workshops
on performance, where my rule
about performance is not doing stuff
is faster than doing stuff, right?
So, yes, you can bring in this entire
simulation of the DOM that is doing more
stuff than not doing stuff,
thereby your test will be slightly slower.
Ask me, how much slower?
Honestly, imperceptibly.
Cuz if your test suite does take forever
to run you are gonna run it less.
Also, we all know,
you open up that PR and you sit there and
you stare at it until all those
statuses turn green, don't you?
You do wait for it, you don't do
anything until all those tests pass,
you just watch it, me too.
So yeah, you might still run into browser
specific issues, it's not a browser.
But it is really good for, hey, I've got
this piece of code that modifies the DOM.
Because like I said earlier,
can you fire up an entire browser and
use that to test your code?
You can, but on that same principle,
do you know what takes a really long time?
Firing up an entire browser,
loading up the entire page,
and go ahead and just to see if,
one string changed, right?
And so this is a really great strategy for
that uncanny valley of it's not
just a function that takes two numbers or
string and modifies it.
But I don't necessarily wanna whip up the
entire app in a browser and test it right?
So great for, I wanna grab one component,
or I wanna check for one event listener,
or something along those lines,
works really well for that.
I will show you this in the code, but
there is basically one
small tweak in vitest.
I think it is just built in for free and
just, but I'd have to remember.
This is what it looks like in vitest, and
there's actually a few more things
to talk about here, which is so
that environment happy-dom,
by default, the environment is node.
If you change that string to from
environment node to environment happy-dom,
guess what?
You now have loaded in with
all your tests, happy-dom.
If you change it to JSDOM,
guess what you have now, JSDOM.
There's also test setup files,
we'll talk about that one later.
The other one is globals which is out
of the box in vitest, but not in jest.
You have to import describe expect and
it from vitest and jest,
they're globally available.
This just makes vitest more like jest.
I turned it on from
most of our examples so
that you didn't have to
think about the difference.
So these are just some configurations
that we can do as well, but
let's actually see it in action.